New article "Design a Technical Interview" (#1)
LukasKnuth/lknuth.dev: content/writings/design_technical_interview.md

Such a list might look like this:

<ul>
<li>{{< ref-non-tech.inline >}}Requirements come from a non-technical colleague in unclear language - engineers must ask for clarification and verify they're building the right thing{{< /ref-non-tech.inline >}}</li>
<li>{{< ref-extend.inline >}}Usually we extend existing systems with new functionality - we don't really create new greenfield projects{{< /ref-extend.inline >}}</li>
<li>{{< ref-move-break.inline >}}We don't "move fast and break things" - we must understand the impact of changes before making them{{< /ref-move-break.inline >}}</li>
<li>{{< ref-boring.inline >}}We try to make our systems <a href='/writings/delightfully_boring'>Delightfully Boring</a> - candidates should be pragmatic{{< /ref-boring.inline >}}</li>
<li>{{< ref-process.inline >}}Our processes aren't settled yet and are subject to change - candidates must be able to adapt and share their own insights{{< /ref-process.inline >}}</li>
<li>{{< ref-learn.inline >}}Candidates must be willing to learn on the job - we don't require in-depth prior knowledge of our tech stack{{< /ref-learn.inline >}}</li>

> <li>{{< ref-pair.inline >}}We pair on complex things and ask colleagues to challenge our ideas{{< /ref-pair.inline >}}</li>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<li>{{< ref-pair.inline >}}We bring the best out of each other with collaboration and challenging ideas, Candidates should be able to take and give constructive feedback{{< /ref-pair.inline >}}</li>
```

> <li>{{< ref-pair.inline >}}We pair on complex things and ask colleagues to challenge our ideas{{< /ref-pair.inline >}}</li>

Author: How do you feel about:

> We pair on the bigger problems - both to tackle complexity and to challenge each others solutions

> <li>{{< ref-pair.inline >}}We pair on complex things and ask colleagues to challenge our ideas{{< /ref-pair.inline >}}</li>

Reviewer: Sounds good to me!

<li>{{< ref-high-vantage.inline >}}The backend team makes big decisions autonomously - we need people that can discuss ideas from a high vantage-point and not get bogged down in details{{< /ref-high-vantage.inline >}}</li>
<li>{{< ref-ideas.inline >}}We value engineers who bring their own thoughts and ideas - not code monkeys that simply do what they're told{{< /ref-ideas.inline >}}</li>
</ul>

Each point should be general enough to avoid specifics, yet clear enough to feel tangible.
This will vary depending on the company and work you do.

> If you are working for an Agile consultancy for example, the specific agile methodology is probably more important to you.

Author: I think Upcase is correct here, because I'm referring to Agile as it's sold to people (as a product).

Maybe it should be "Agile ™️" ? :D

> If you are working for an Agile consultancy for example, the specific agile methodology is probably more important to you.

Author: See https://www.scnsoft.com/services/agile-consulting *shudder*

Candidates are free to use whatever language/framework/environment they're proficient with.
Pseudo code is also accepted.
It's not relevant to us if the candidate knows all standard library functions by heart.
Code doesn't need to compile either, as long as the intend is clearly communicated.

Our approach to processes is similar.
We expect them to be slightly different to what the candidate is used to from their previous workplace.
Even if they share the same name or ideology.
We expect they will learn these during their onboarding period.

> * {{< ref-ideas.inline />}}
> * {{< ref-boring.inline />}}

There isn't enough time to have the candidate build a complete solution to the given problem.
But there _is_ enough time to observe the way they go about solving the problem.
This tells us if candidates are organized and how they communicate.

While everyone is unique in this regard, we explicitly look for strong communicators.
Candidates that ask questions, explain their train of thought and ask for help when stuck.
Since we expect this behavior from them, we state up front that no extra credit is given for solving the problem without asking questions.

## Sequence

> **First**, we (the interviewer) do a very brief introduction.

Author: I agree with you. I think the article _wants_ to be first person (from the teams perspective), but I keep pulling it back to make clear that we are the interviewers.

We state all parameters and expectations for the interview up-front.
We stress that there are no extra points for completeness, speed or or working without input.

In the **second** step we unveil the problem statement.
We give the candidate time to read it, highlight what _they_ think is important and ask questions.

The **third** step is to design the system as stated in the problem.

> We use an infinite modeling canvas for all this, currently Miro.

Author: No Ads :D

The final, **fourth** step is to take a piece of the problem statement and write code to solve it.
We let the candidate use their familiar tooling and simply share their screen.
During this phase we help with questions and challenge if the code fits the previously designed system.
Once again, we keep the time and aim for 20min.

## Learnings

Since we ran this interview strategy before, here are some takeaways and ideas for iterating on the process.

Many companies require developers to create small sample projects in their free time.
This tends to penalize people with families or just less free time, so we decided to avoid it.
We've gotten largely positive feedback from candidates for this decision.

Many candidates spend too much time making their systems diagrams pretty.
Instead discouraging this verbally, we could also use less precise tooling, like MS Paint.
If the tool doesn't allow perfectly adjusting boxes, it's immediately clear that this isn't expected either.

Interviews like these create high pressure situations, almost like school tests.
Additionally, time is very constrained.

> We think this is fair in our case were we were hiring senior engineers.

Author: Isn't the `where` mostly for physical location/places? I struggle with these two a lot.
